---
layout: post
title: Welcome to Planck!
tags: hello documentation
share: false
---
# About Planck
Planck is a back-end framework for Node.js platform. It uses modern javascript features, provided by ES2015/ES2016 standards. Because not all of that features currently supported by Node.js, Planck uses code sourve-to-source compilation with Babel transpiller. If you are interested in modern javascript - this framework is for you!

## Core features
* Using of modern javascript features. No more callback hell, even chains of promises unnecessary - all API built on async/await.
* Using of code generators for many parts of your app - you can create stub for app or even use runtime code generation, for incremental generation of your app parts. For example you can import unexisted model in your controller, restart server and see what model was automatically generated. Of course, this option can be turn off for production.

## Routing

Planck app supports REST API by default. Fastest way to create routes to your resource is using ```resource``` helper. It creates GET/POST/PUT/PATCH/DELETE routes and links them to your controller. You also can specify ONLY block with http methods to use with this resource. Resources can contain sub-resources.
Other way to specify route is to use ```route``` helper and provide all options: path, controller, methods. You can include your ```route``` helpers inside ```resource```.

Here is an example of resources/routes, can be handled by Planck:

```javascript
app = await new App();

class MyRouter extends Router.RouterHTTP{
    constructor(resource, route){
        super();
        resource('users', () => {
            resource('friends', ['update']);
            route('admin', 'admin.getInfo');
            route('/adminFromUsers');
        });
        resource('groups', () => {
            resource('posts', ['create', 'read'], () => {
                resource('comments');
                resource('likes', ['read']);
            });
        });

        route('/admin', 'admin.getInfo');
        route('/my/password', 'users.password', ['get', 'post']);

        route.get('/my/info', 'users.info');
        route.post('/my/info', 'users.info');
        route.put('/my/info', 'users.info');
        route.patch('/my/info', 'users.info');
        route.delete('/my/info', 'users.info');

        route(); //also fail
        route('/fail');
        route('/fail2', 'onlyControllerName');
    }
}
await app.use(MyRouter);
```
[More about routing](/routing)

## MVC

### Models
In development. For now its better to use another ORM.

### Controllers

Controller is a javascript module with class, extended from Planck's ```Controller.Base```. Router creates instance of controller for each request and call method, associated with this request to handle it. Method should resolve this request and put response data to ```this```. After that, instance of controller passes to View, which transform data to format, requested by user.

```javascript
import {Controller} from 'planck';

@Controller.useViews('html-view')
class UserController extends Controller.Base{
	constructor(){
		super();
	}

	read(params){
		this.user = {name: 'foo'};
	}

	readList(params){
		this.userList = [{name: 'foo'}, {name: 'bar'}];
	}
}

export default UsersController;
```
[More about controllers](/controllers)

### Views
In Planck views and templates are separated. View is a class for rendering data from controller in template. This separation needed because Planck does not force developers to use one main format, like html in most of frameworks, with some ugly logic if you need another format. In Planck you can specify View for your controller or method. If you will use one single view in entire app just provide it in main controller. If you will use some different views in different part of app, you can specify it there. View will get data from your controller and render it to template. View has two main methods - resolve and reject, which will used if your controller returns data or throw an error.

[More about views](/views)

## Automatic code generation
Planck provides smart code generators. Its not just a filling templates with some data, Planck can grab info from your code and use it for code generation. For example after you add something to your router, Planck can create controller for this route, without any additional data from user. When you ```import``` model in your controller - Planck can create this model if it does not exists.

<!--more-->
